# IoT_Project
Hand Gesture Recognition System

The foremost aim of technology has been to increase efficiency and decrease effort. With the advent of ‘Internet of Things’ in the last decade, we have been pushing for ubiquitous computing in all spheres of life. It thus is of extreme importance to simplify humaninterfacing with technology. The main problem we are focusing is the inability of differently abled people(speech-impaired) to communicate with normal people or other differently abled people, because they have their own sign language but normal people don’t know the sign language which is used for intercommunication between mute people. This system will be useful to solve this problem and help them to make their interaction easily with the people. They can communicate hassle-free by using this device & with the help of our app, we converted gesture pattern into text to Speech. Now, we are here with the combined Hardware and Software solution which is called “Hand Gesture Recognition System”, after analysing some problems. And, try to make the next generation Support Device for differently abled people(speechimpaired). The hand gestures are one of the typical methods used in sign language. It is very difficult for the differently abled people to communicate with the world. This project presents a solution that will not only automatically recognise the hand gestures but will also convert it into speech and text output so that impaired person can easily communicate with normal people. On the whole, the solution aims to provide aid to those in need thus ensuring social relevance. The people can easily communicate with each other. The user-friendly nature of the system ensure that people can use it without any difficulty and complexity. The application is cost efficient and eliminates the usage of expensive technology.
